Key Features
• Single and Dual-Port QSFP28 • Application Device Queues (ADQ) 
• PCI Express (PCIe) 4.0 x16 • Dynamic Device Personalization (DDP) 
• Ethernet Port Configuration T ool (EPCT) • Supports both RDMA iWARP and RoCEv2 Efficient workload-optimized performance at Ethernet speeds of 10 to 100GbpsIntel® Ethernet Network Adapter 
E810-CQDA1/CQDA2
Performance for Cloud Applications
Delivers the bandwidth and increased application 
throughput required for demanding cloud workloads  
including edge services, web servers, database  
applications, caching servers, and storage targets.
• Application Device Queues (ADQ) improves  
application response time predictability using  
advanced traffic-steering technology
• Dynamic Device Personalization (DDP) enhances  
packet classification capabilities, to deliver up to 3x 
throughput improvement¹ for some cloud workloads
• Supports both RDMA iWARP and RoCEv2 for  
high-speed, low-latency connectivity to storage targetsOptimizations for Communications Workloads  
Provides packet classification and sorting  
optimizations for high-bandwidth network and  
communications workloads, including mobile core,  
5G RAN, and network appliances.
• Dynamic Device Personalization (DDP) supports  
existing and new communications-specific protocols  
improving packet-processing efficiency up to 3x  
for some Network Functions Virtualization (NFV)  
workloads
• IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol (PTP) v2  
enables precise clock synchronization across the  
5G RAN deployments
• Enhanced Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK)  
support increases packet-processing speedsImprove application efficiency and network performance with innovative and versatile capabilities that optimize  
high-performance server workloads such as NFV, storage, HPC-AI and hybrid cloud.  
Versatile Port Configurations with EPCT
E810-CQDA1 and -CQDA2 adapters support a wide range of system configurations to meet customer needs 
and workload requirements. The many port and speed combinations available simplify validation and  
deployment. Using EPCT, these adapters can be programmed to act as many different physical network  
adapters, with a maximum throughput of 100Gbps.
Connect to a wide range of 
switch speeds and media types2x100Gb
1x100Gb
2x50Gb
4x25Gb
4x25Gb
2x2x25Gb
8x10Gb
E810-CQDA1
E810-CQDA2
Product Brief
Intel® Ethernet 800 Series Network Adapters
Greater Predictability at Scale  
As modern data centers scale, a key challenge is 
to provide scalable, predictable application-level 
performance. Application Device Queues (ADQ) 
technology improves performance scalability and 
predictability by dedicating queues to key workloads, 
delivering predictable high performance through 
dramatically reduced jitter.
Increasing the predictability of application response 
times by lowering jitter enables more compute 
servers to be assigned to a task and can allow more 
users to access the system, providing a better  
end-user experience. Even applications that are not 
large scale can benefit from higher consistency, 
enabling them to meet service-level agreements 
(SLAs) more easily.
ADQ enables application-specific data steering, 
signaling, and rate limiting using an optimized 
application thread to device data path. This ability 
to dedicate queues and shape network traffic not 
only increases performance, it reduces latency and 
improves throughput.
Increase Throughput and Lower Latency
Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) provides 
high throughput and low-latency performance 
for modern high-speed Ethernet by eliminating 
three major sources of networking overhead: TCP/
IP stack process, memory copies, and application 
context switches. Intel Ethernet 800 Series Network 
Adapters support all Ethernet-based storage 
transport, including iWARP , RoCEv2, and NVMe  
over Fabric.
RoCE (RDMA over Converged Ethernet): RoCEv2 
substitutes the InfiniBand physical layer and data link 
layer with Ethernet, operates on top of UDP/IP, and is 
routable over IP networks.
iWARP, IETF standard protocols based: Delivers  
RDMA on top of the pervasive TCP/IP protocol. 
iWARP RDMA runs over standard network and 
transport layers and works with all Ethernet network 
infrastructure. TCP provides flow control and 
congestion management and does not require a 
lossless Ethernet network. iWARP is a highly routable 
and scalable RDMA implementation.
Improve Packet Processing Efficiency
Dynamic Device Personalization (DDP) customizable 
packet filtering, along with enhanced DPDK, supports 
advanced packet forwarding and highly-efficient 
packet processing for both Cloud and NFV workloads.The 800 Series firmware loads an enhanced DDP 
profile with many workload-specific protocols at 
driver initialization for greater flexibility. When 
multiple 800 Series adapters are present in a system, 
the pipeline on each adapter can be programmed 
independently with a different DDP profile.
Increase Timing Accuracy  
Intel Ethernet 800 Series supports both IEEE  
1588 PTP v1 and v2 with two-step option. The 
products provide increased accuracy at single-digit 
nanosecond level, and can report the reception  
time for every packet. This level of timing accuracy 
can help ensure tight synchronization across  
network deployments ranging from 5G RAN  
to financial services, industrial automation, and 
energy monitoring.
Protect, Detect, and Recover
Zero T rust is a security design strategy centered on 
the belief that organizations, by default, should not 
automatically trust any request for system access. 
This includes requests coming from outside, as  
well as inside its perimeters. Zero T rust demands  
that every access request be verified before  
granting access.
The 800 Series implements a design philosophy of 
platform resiliency with 3 attributes compliant with 
the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, including NIST 
800-193 Platform Firmware Resiliency Guidelines: 
Protect, Detect and Recover. By design, the Hardware 
Root of T rust in the 800 Series protects the firmware 
and critical device settings with authentication for 
every access. Signed firmware updates and the 
Hardware Root of T rust protects and verifies critical 
device settings with built-in corruption detection and 
automated device recovery. T ogether these features 
ensure the device safely returns to its originally 
programmed state.  All 800 Series products include these technologies
For more information about  
Intel® Ethernet T echnologies, 
including videos and resource 
libraries, visit intel.com/ethernet  
22Intel® Ethernet 800 Series Network Adapters are  
designed with Intel® Ethernet Controller E810 and  
include these features².
Host Interface
• Compliance with PCIe 4.0
• Concurrency for 256 non-posted requests
Software Interface
• Base mode VF compatibility with  Intel®  
Adaptive Virtual Functions Specification
• T x/Rx Queues
 -2048 Tx queues and 2048 Rx queues
 -Dynamic allocation of queues to  
functions and VSIs
• Interrupts
 -2048 interrupts vectors, allocated in  
a flexible manner to queues and  
other causes
 -Multiple interrupt moderation schemes
 -20M interrupts/sec
• Control Queues (a.k.a. Admin Queues)
 -Mailbox Queues for PF-VF and  
driver-driver
 -Admin Queues for Software-Firmware 
control flows
 -Sideband Queues for Software to access 
IPs inside the E810
• 256 Tx Doorbell (DB) Queues
• 512 Tx Completion Queues
• Quanta Descriptor (QD) Queue per Tx 
queue. Quanta information is also  
embedded in the T x doorbell
• Programmable Rx descriptor fields
Packet Processing
• Enhanced Data Plane Development Kit 
(DPDK)
• General
 -Stages of parsing, switching, ACLs,  
classification, packet modification
 -Programmable packet processing 
pipeline
 -Profile based
 -Programmable actions
 -Propagation of priorities between stages
• Parser
 -Parses up to 504B from packet header
 -Parse Graph based
 -Session-based parsing
 -Programmable parse engine
• Binary Classifier (VEB Switch)
 -768 switch ports (VSIs)
 -Programmable forwarding rules
 -Storm Control• ACLs
 -8K programmable TCAM entries
 -Tiling capability to n*40b width
• Classification Filters
 -Hash-based statistical distribution
 -Intel® Ethernet Flow Director (Intel®  
Ethernet FD) flow-based classification
 -Flow-based identification of iWARP and 
RoCE flows
 -Programmable rules
• Modifier
 -Insert (Tx), remove (Rx), and modify of 
packet VLANs
 -L3 and L4 checksums and CRC
Virtualization
• Host virtualization via VMDQ and SR-IOV
• Up to 256 SR-IOV Virtual Functions
• Stateless offloads for tunneled packets  
(network virtualization support)
• Malicious VF protection
• Virtual machine load balancing (VMLB)
• Advanced packet filtering
• VLAN support with VLAN tag insertion,  
stripping and packet filtering for up to 4096 
VLAN tags
• VxLAN, GENEVE, NVGRE, MPLS, VxLAN-
GPE with Network Service Headers (NSH)
• Intel® Ethernet Adaptive Virtual  
Function drivers
RDMA
• iWARP and RoCEv2
• 256K Queue Pairs (QPs)
• Send Queue Push Mode
Note : RDMA is not supported when the E810 
is configured for >4-port operation.
QoS
• WFQ Transmit scheduler with nine  
programmable layers
• Pipeline sharing and starvation avoidance
• QoS via 802.1p PCP or Differentiated  
Services Code Point (DSCP) value
• Packet shaping
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Manageability
• SMBus operating at up to 1Mb/s
• DMTF-compliant NC-SI 1.1 Interface at  
100Mb/s
• MCTP over PCIe and SMBus
• Enterprise-level management schemes via 
local BMC
• SNMP and RMON statistic counters
• Watchdog timer
• PLDM over MCTP; PLDM Monitoring; 
PLDM firmware update; PLDM for RDE
• Firmware Management Protocol support
Power Management
• Supports PCI power management states 
D0, D3hot, D3cold
Time Synchronization
• Time stamp with each Rx packet
• Selective time stamps for Tx packets
• IEEE 1588 PTP v1 and v2 support
• Time synchronization signaling with other 
local platform ingredients
Pre-Boot
• Signed UEFI option ROM compatible with  
HTTPS boot
Security
• Hardware-based Root of Trust
• Authentication on NVM Read and Power On
• Built-in detection of firmware/critical setting 
corruption with automated device recovery
Ethernet Port Configuration Tool (EPCT)
• Available for all 100Gb Intel® Ethernet 800 
Series Network Adapters
• Offers system configuration options for 
high-density, port-constrained network 
environments
 -Up to six configurations to choose from
 -Validate once, reconfigure as often  
as needed
• Watch the video , or see the infographic
3Supported Physical Layer Interfaces 
100Gbps 50Gbps 25Gbps 10Gbps
DACs IEEE 100GBASE-CR2
100GBASE-CR4IEEE 50GBASE-CR
25G/50G Consortium 50GBASE-CR225GBASE-CR (CA-N, CA-S, CA-L) SFP+ 10GbE DAC 
Optics and AOCs CAUI-4
100GAUI-2
100GAUI-4
100Gb-SR/SR4/LR/LR4IEEE 50GAUI-1
IEEE 50GAUI-2
IEEE LAUI-225GBASE-SR/LR 10GBASE-SR/LRAdapter Features
Data Rate Supported 100/50/25/10GbE Per Port
Bus Type/Bus Width PCIe 4.0 x16
Hardware Certifications BSMI, CE, CMIM, FCC, ICES, KCC, RCM, UKCA, 
cURus, and VCCI
BMSI RoHS and  
RoHS-compliant Product is compliant with T aiwan Bureau of  
Standards, Metrology and Inspection (BMSI), 
and EU RoHS Directive 2 2011/65/EU (Directive 
2011/65/EU) and its amendments  
(e.g. 2015/863/EU)
Controller Intel® Ethernet Controller E810-CAM1 (Single Port) 
Intel® Ethernet Controller E810-CAM2 (Dual Port)
Bracket Full-height bracket installed  
Low-profile bracket included in package
Dimension 167 mm x 69 mm
Power Consumption
Single Port Single Port Dual Port Dual Port
 DACs Typical Power Max Power Typical Power Max Power
100GbE Max 13.9 W 16.6 W 16.9 W 19.2 W
Idle (no traffic) 12.5 W 14.9 W 15.4 W 17.3 W
Optics 
100GbE Max 15.6 W 20.6 W 20.8 W 27.13 W
Idle (no traffic) 14.3 W 18.9 W 19.3 W 25.43 W
QSFP28 Max Power Per Port* 4.5 W 3.5 W
*The max power per port is not an additional power requirement, it is included in the optics maximum power figures listed in the Power Consumption table.Product Order Code
Configuration Product Code
Single  Port E810CQDA1, E810CQDA1BLK
Dual Port E810CQDA2, E810CQDA2BLK
Technical Specifications
Airflow Commercial T emp DAC
Dual Port 100 LFM @ 25 °C ambient
Dual Port 200 LFM @ 45 °C ambient  
Dual Port 350 LFM @ 55 °C ambientCommercial Temp Optics (3.5 W)
Dual Port 200 LFM @ 25 °C ambient
Dual Port 250 LFM @ 35 °C ambient  
Dual Port 500 LFM @ 45 °C ambientExtended Temp* Optics (3.5 W)
Dual Port 100 LFM @ 25 °C ambient  
Dual Port 250 LFM @ 45 °C ambient  
Dual Port 400 LFM @ 55 °C ambient
*85 °C max case
Storage Humidity Maximum: 90% non-condensing relative humidity at 35 °C 
Storage T emperature -40 °C to 70 °C (-40 °F to 158 °F)
Operating T emperature -5 °C to 55 °C (23 °F to 131 °F)
LED Indicators ACTIVITY (blinking) NO ACTIVITY (off) LINK SPEED (green = 100GbE; amber = less than 100GbE; off = no link)
Supported Operating Systems
For a complete list of supported network operating systems for   
Intel® Ethernet 800 Series Network Adapters visit:  
intel.com/support/EthernetOSIntel® Ethernet Optics
Combine high-density Ethernet connections with Intel® Ethernet 
800 Series Network Adapters for dependable interoperability and  
consistent performance across the network. Intel Ethernet Optics 
have been extensively tested for compatibility with Intel Ethernet 
Network Adapters. Learn more at intel.com/ethernet products
4No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any intellectual property rights is granted by this document. Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without 
limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of performance, course of dealing, 
or usage in trade. 
This document contains information on products, services and/or processes in development. All information provided here is subject to 
change without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest forecast, schedule, specifications and roadmaps. 
The products and services described may contain defects or errors which may cause deviations from published specifications. 
© Intel Corporation. Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. 
Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
0824/ED/Axiom  641671-016USProduct Information
For information about Intel® Ethernet Products and technologies 
visit:  intel.com/ethernetWarranty  
Intel limited lifetime hardware warranty, 90-day money-back 
guarantee (US and Canada) and worldwide support.
Customer Support
For customer support options in North America visit:  
intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/contact-support.html
1. Dynamic Device Personalization (DDP) enables protocol-specific traffic acceleration, to deliver throughput improvement and latency reduction for some cloud workloads
2. See the  Intel® Ethernet Controller E810 Datasheet  for the full list of product features.
3. Edge Power Consumption on dual-port adapters, using power class 4 optics drawing the maximum allowed power of 3.5 W each has been shown to exceed the 25 W limit dictated by PCIe CEM  
specification for products that do not request/configure for high power at the 75 W level. Intel® drivers do not currently support this configuration request. As such the card is not in compliance 
with the PCI Express Card Electromechanical Specification Revision 4.0, Version 1.0  as written. 

